Node.js Authentication Skill 2
Node.js Authentication Skill 2 is a web application that provides user authentication functionality using Express.js. It includes features such as local authentication and Google OAuth authentication. The project follows the MVC (Model-View-Controller) architecture for organized development.

Installation
Clone the repository to your local machine:

bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/UtkarshPriy/Nodejs_Authentication_skill_2.git
Navigate to the project directory:

bash
Copy code
cd Nodejs_Authentication_skill_2
Install dependencies using npm:

Copy code
npm install
Usage
Ensure you have Node.js installed on your machine.

Create a .env file in the root directory and add the necessary environment variables. For example:

makefile
Copy code
SESSION_SECRET=your_session_secret
Start the server:


Copy code
npm start
Once the server is running, you can access the application in your web browser at http://localhost:3000.

Features
Local Authentication: Users can sign up, sign in, and reset their passwords using local authentication.
Google OAuth Authentication: Users can sign in using their Google accounts via OAuth authentication.
Session Management: Express Session is used for session management.
Error Handling: Middleware for error handling is implemented to catch and log errors.
Password Hashing: User passwords are hashed using bcrypt before storing them in the database.
Middleware: Custom middleware ensures authentication before accessing certain routes.
Project Structure
Controllers: Contains the logic for handling user authentication and related operations.
Models: Defines the schema and interacts with the database.
Views: Contains EJS templates for rendering pages.
Public: Stores static files such as CSS, images, etc.
Config: Contains configuration files for Mongoose, Passport.js, and environment variables.
Middleware: Custom middleware for authentication and error handling.
Contributing
Contributions are welcome! If you find any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please feel free to open an issue or create a pull request.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

